---
title: "Y1S1 Module Review"
date: 2023-06-24T23:18:30+08:00
description: "AY22/23 Year 1 Semester 1 Module Review"
tags: ["Module Review"]
showToc: true
draft: false
---

My first semester at NUS as a Data Science and Analytics student was a pretty good one. I generally enjoyed the modules I took. I also made a lot of new friends, and I'm really grateful for that. The workload was unexpectedly lighter compared to pre-university, but it requires a lot more self-discipline to keep up with deadlines.

I took a total of 5 modules: 2 core modules (DSA1101 and CS2040), 2 CHS common curriculum modules (HSA1000 and HSS1000), and 1 RVRC module (RVSS1001). I also took 2 other CFG modules (CFG1002 and CFG1003).

Total amount of MCs: 22

## DSA1101 Introduction to Data Science

Workload: Low

Expected Grade: A+

Actual Grade: A+

Assessment:

- 10% Group Quizzes (5% each)
- 30% Midterm
- 60% Final

---

This module introduced various machine learning algorithms: linear regression, logistic regression, decision trees, naive bayes, k-means clustering, etc.

The math introduced was pretty basic and could be understood with H2 Math background. The module also introduced the R programming language, which is used only in the quizzes.

Both midterm and final were theory-based with a A4 cheatsheet, and the questions were pretty straightforward (very similar to past year papers) but requires fast and careful calculations.

The module was pretty easy to score, and I would recommend it to anyone who wants to learn more about data science.

## CS2040 Data Structures and Algorithms

Workload: High

Expected Grade: A+

Actual Grade: A+

Assessment:

- 12% Labs (1% each)
- 15% Midterm
- 6% Tutorial Attendance/Participation
- 12% VisuAlgo Quiz
- 3% Mock PE
- 12% Actual PE
- 40% Final

---

This module introduced various data structures and algorithms: linked lists, stacks, queues, BST/AVL trees, hashmaps, heaps, sorting algorithms, graph algorithms, etc.

I really liked the practial exam component, which only happened under Prof Tan Sun Teck, because it can prepare us for coding interviews in the future (noted that styling is also graded for labs and PEs).

The exam format is also very good where the questions were mostly MCQs but the mark for each option is different (some incorrect options could give partial marks based on how close the answer is to the correct answer which seems quite fair).

There were bonus coding questions in the midterm and final (you can get a bonus of +3 marks, but need to be extra careful when coding on pen and paper - I learnt the hard way during the midterm where I made inconsistent variable names while writing 😅).

The module was pretty heavy on the workload (I tried hard for this module as I aimed to transfer to Computer Science soon), but it was the most enjoyable module for me this semester! 😍

## HSA1000 Asian Interconnections

Workload: Medium

Expected Grade: B

Actual Grade: B+

Assessment:

- 15% Tutorial Participation
- 20% Group Poster
- 30% + 20% Two Individual Essays, 1 in week 6, 1 in week 13
- 15% Group Presentation

---

The module introduced various concepts related to Asian history and culture.

The workload was quite high (only less than CS2040 for this semester) as there were weekly readings (these readings are quite long and a bit harder to understand compared to the readings for HSS1000 if you are not familiar with the history).

The group poster was quite interesting where we need to visit a neighbourhood in Singapore and find out more about the place and relate it to the concepts taught in the modul (our group chose Chinatown which is quite standard).

The individual essays were time-consuming, especially the first one where I need to write about my own history which was really challenging. 🥲

## HSS1000 Understanding Social Complexity

Workload: Low

Expected Grade: A-

Actual Grade: A-

Assessment:

- 15% Tutorial participation
- 15% Post-tutorial engagement
- 20% Group Presentation
- 50% Bi weekly quizzes (5 highest scores out of 6)

---

The module introduced various concepts related to social sciences such as freedom, meritocracy, etc.

The workload was quite low but it is quite tricky to score well as the quizzes were really difficult (median is usually about 3/5 per quiz) even if you read the readings. 🥹

The final recorded video presentation can be about a topic of our choice which was quite flexible (our group chose to present about meritocracy which is a common debate in Singapore).

## RVSS1001 Imagining Wakanda: Cities for work, life, and play

Workload: Medium

Expected Grade: B

Actual Grade: B-

- 15% Tutorial Participation
- 30% Annotated Photo Essays (10% each)
- 20% Site Evaluation
- 35% Group Project

---

The module introduced various concepts related to urban planning and design, especially in the context of sustainable development.

The best part about the module is the field trips to various sites in Singapore where we need to take photos for the annotated photo essays.

The site evaluation and final project was related the Yusof Ishak House (YIH) right next to RVRC. It was quite interesting to find out that YIH was very popular in the past, and after this semester the place is temporarily closed for renovation. 😂

The workload is heavier than HSA1000 and HSS1000, but it is still manageable.

## CFG1002 Career Catalyst

Workload: Very Low

Expected Grade: CS

Actual Grade: CS

---

The module introduced various career-related topics such as resume writing, interview skills, etc. It also introduced the VMock platform which is very useful.

To complete the module, you need Mto complete a few quizzes and submit a resume and an elevator pitch on VMock.

Can actually complete the module in 1 day, but I spread it out over a few sessions where I spent quite some time on my resume (learning LaTeX to format my resume and quite satisfied with my current template 😊).

## CFG1003 Financial Wellbeing - Introduction

Workload: Very Low

Expected Grade: CS

Actual Grade: CS

---

The module introduced basic financial concepts which are quite common sense.

Just OTOT read through the given materials on the website and complete the quizzes.

Can actually complete the module in 1 day, but I spread it out over a few sessions to retain the information better.
